If we want to get to $10 million or year
per year or more, we're going to have to
have some good people on our team. And I
feel like hiring and training is
something that a lot of people get
extremely stuck on, both in terms of
when to hire someone, which is not going
to be the point of this video, but also
how to hire someone and how to get the
best candidates. Because a lot of people
similar to lead generation just rely on
kind of hope and luck hiring just like
they rely on hope and luck marketing.
Sometimes that actually can work out and
you know the saying a broken clock is
still right twice per day. But if we
really want to get to 10 million per
year or more, we need to have a system
to hire a great lead generation team.
And this system can also be used for
operations and fulfillment and all of
that kind of stuff too. But we make lead
generation focused videos here. So this
is the funnel that we want to build to
get to $10 million per year. And we have
to hire people to help us build and run
it. Run it for sure. We have our paid
ads, our content, our outreach and our
partnerships to drive top ofunnel
traffic. We have our lead magnets and
our email flows and our webinars and
VSSLs and newsletters and community and
appointment setters in the middle and
bottom of funnel to capture, nurture and
qualify leads. All that traffic is
driven to our website where they get on
a call with us where we can sell them
our service, refer them away, sell them
some products or information or whatever
they can afford. Now, this is obviously
a large full-scale marketing system and
no one, not even me, can operate it all
on my own. So, we need to be able to
hire.
Before I get started in the actual
system, I really want to say that you're
going to save yourself a lot of time and
effort and failure and mental stress by
just paying 50% more for someone who is
five times better and just letting them
do it. One good person can do more than
five to 10 shitty normal people. And the
amazing thing is you don't need to pay
them five to 10 times more than that.
Not even close. You can pay them 20%
more, 30%, 50%, maybe even double to get
five to 10 times better result. And I
don't really have regrets. I try to not
view life in that way. But this is one
thing that I learned about eight years
too late. And if it's one of the few
things that I really, really, really
wish I learned earlier and don't just
view as, oh, it's a normal part of the
process. I've been told this many times
and I kind of ignored that advice for
the first eight or so years of my
business career and really caused a lot
of problems. And since I've actually
followed the advice given to me by
earlier mentors and even parents and
even just you know books and it doesn't
really take a genius to understand this
could have saved a lot of problem.
The first step is the job description
and I like to make it extremely clear in
terms of working hours, language, time
zone and pay. So I am
if it is an job that can't be done
asynchronously. So it's not like an
editor or a thumbnail person or you know
a graphic designer or something if you
have to coordinate with them to do their
job. I never hire someone within 3 hours
like more than three hours time zone
difference. You know, they say,
especially if you're hiring overseas,
that they can work overnight in their
time zone for 9 to5, but just never
really works out in my opinion. And this
is very, very important because you need
your team to be cohesive and you need
everybody to be available to actually do
the work. The next is I prioritize
English speaking and not just can they
speak English like can they speak
English properly and eloquently
preferably without an extreme accent
especially if they're client-f facing
but even for the internal cohesion of
the team. Substitute English with
whatever language if it isn't English.
And I also like to put the pay on there.
I like to just put the pay on everything
just like I like to put the price on
anything that I'm selling. There is
literally no reason to not put the pay
up there if you're trying to attack
attract top people. Just like talking to
potential clients who can't afford it or
are not willing to pay a certain amount.
There's no point in going through the
interview process, hiding the hiding the
pay, and all of a sudden, you know, you
get to the end and they're just not
going to accept your offer. It's a waste
of your time. it's a waste of their
time. The thing that I like to do in my
job description is to make sure that
they record a video two to three minutes
introducing themselves, if you're
talking about hiring salespeople
specifically, I like the 2 to three
minute video to specifically be about
their funniest story because charisma
and just communication is going to be
pretty good and pretty important for
sales. and the best sales reps that I've
ever hired. I was laughing out loud 100%
of the time at their video that they
said. And I also like to do a portfolio
and proof of past work. Even if that's
vague, it's just going to filter out the
people who, you know, say they can do X,
Y, and Z when they've never done it
before. Like, okay, if you're a media
buyer, you can just send me some fake
screenshots if you want to. At least you
know how to get the fake screenshots and
what they are. It's not like you can
tell anyways, but it's really really
important cuz it dqs like 50% of people
who are applying without any skill set
whatsoever. And sometimes those people
get through the interview process and
trick you. The goal here is to find a
way to automatically disqualify 90% or
more of people. And most people are too
lazy to record a video. Most people
don't have any portfolio or proof of
past work. So, this does a good job on
its own. We want to disqualify people
who are lowquality and or people who
cannot or will not follow basic
instructions. It's not a lot to us, but
the bar has never been lower, so to
speak. The next is to post this job
description and job on all platforms. I
like to prioritize hiring from personal
branding assets like my YouTube channel
and my Twitter if you have them. They're
going to be more knowledgeable or up to
speed and will admire and look up to you
more because they are your fans and
followers. If you don't have a personal
brand, just post on every possible site
such as LinkedIn, Indeed, you know, all
of them. The point is we want to get
about a thousand application quickly as
fast as possible and we don't want to
have them apply through each of the
platforms like that. We want to try to
put a link in the description to
consolidate them into one thing like a
type form or Google form or whatever if
you can. Not all platforms allow you to
do that but that's what I do. So we want
to get those 10 or those thousand
applications quickly automatically DQ
90% of them and then we want to go to
the next step which is to choose 10 to
interview. If you interview 10 people in
my experience you're quickly going to
know who's an idiot and who actually
knows what they're talking about. I
think it's very important that you
understand that you need to rush and do
this as quickly as possible. Don't post
the job and then wait three weeks. A
players like they're called and top
people can get a new job anywhere
quickly. You don't have time to just
screw around. As business owners, we
need A players a lot more than A players
need us. There's an infinite number of
businesses to work for and a finite
number of really, really good people.
So, we need to move fast or else we are
going to lose them. When conducting the
interviews, put emphasis on selecting
people who you learn something from in
the interview. If you aren't learning
something from them, even if it's small,
they're probably not the right candidate
and you know so much more about the job
than they do, it's probably not a good
thing in general. As the founder, you
probably should know a lot about every
area of your business. That sounds like
being a responsible and knowledgeable
founder, but if you are that far ahead
of someone you're hiring, probably not
going to be a good fit.
Once you've done those 10 interviews as
fast as possible, we want to give a paid
assignment to three of them. So, select
our favorites and give them a paid
assignment at whatever their rate would
be. If they're getting paid 200k a year,
for example, that's about $100 per hour.
A 4hour paid assignment would be $400.
We want to prioritize the assignment for
quality as well as timeliness. Set a
clear deadline no more than 48 hours
out. I think it's very important to have
a standardized assignment so that you
can compare it to the other ones. You
just have three assignments. Okay, go
write this ad copy based on this
creative brief or something. Then you
can compare and see who put effort, see
who has the best ideas, the most
creativity, and all that kind of stuff.
We want it to be standardized, but we
don't want it to be like too, you know,
laid out for them because we want to see
how they think. Choose the winner and
offer them the job. Don't DQ the other
people yet cuz if there is more than one
assignment that comes back that is
adequate. We might even consider hiring
them too if we're scaling up or we might
have them in the wait list in case the
first person does not accept.
Once we have hired this person, we want
to do a 30-day onboarding course. So, I
like to have this course that goes over
things such as standards, culture,
access, responsibilities, SOPs, and all
that kind of stuff. And I like to host
it in any online course platform. I use
Thinkific personally, but Kajjabi
Circle, I'm sure there's tons of them.
During the first three days of this, I
like to have the culture part as a
full-time course, eight hours per day.
One of the best quotes that I ever
heard, and I think it was from Dave
Ramsey actually, but I'm not sure, is
that you have to force your culture onto
them. They don't get to bring your their
culture with them to your company. And
that's the purpose of this first three
days. After the first 3 days, they
should go over, you know, one to two
hours per day to teach them your
systems, how to do the actual
deliverables, let's call them, for their
role. and to do so without you having to
manually like spend hours per day
teaching them. It should just be a video
course that they're learning about how
to do the role at your company. During
the first 30 days, I also think that you
need to have a daily one-on-one with
them. If you're at a bigger company and
you're scaling, you might have their
direct superior or their manager do
this. This could last as little as 15
minutes. Could also go more.
During the first 30 days, I think you
should have or they should have a
one-on-one with every member of their
team can even last five, ten minutes, as
well as their direct superior. I think
that a lack of clarity for new hires is
obviously terrible. And when you're
hiring great people, you need to make a
very good first impression on them the
same way you'd want to make a great
first impression from a client. And you
can think of this in the same way as you
would do client onboarding, employee
onboarding. You need to set a great
first impression with your A players
because first impressions last. So the
final thing that you would do is for all
of the important deliverables or tasks
like if this is an ad person, how to
write ad copy or how to,
you know, edit or how to film or how to
set up their lighting or whatever. You
do it for them in front of them on Zoom
or in person if it's an office using
only the checklist and then they switch
around and do it for you using only the
checklist. If you have to use some
exterior information or something's not
in the checklist, the checklist is not
complete and you have to add it. That is
the key to making good checklist and
SOPs. So once you do it in front of them
and they do it in front of you using
only the checklist, then they are
effectively trained in that area or that
deliverable. And you just repeat this as
many times as necessary for their
different responsibilities.
The golden rule to wrap this up, and I
think I heard Alex Hermoszi say it, if
you have to start making up stupid
rules, you have to hire the wrong
people. I had a situation in business
once where one of the partners agreed to
a 50% revenue share in perpetuity with u
a referral partner. you know, 50% of
topline revenue. I that was so stupid
that I didn't even think to just say,
"Hey, like don't, you know, just don't
give away 50% of revenue." Right? Like I
had another situation where, you know,
instead of building a landing page, one
of the people just randomly took down
the site that was getting 70k of ads
sent to it today. You know, oh, sorry, I
should have specifically told you not to
take down the site, right?
or don't watch Netflix when you're
working. I don't know. Always stick to
that rule and be ruthless with it with
business partners, with employees, with
contractors. If you have to start making
up stupid rules like you have to tell me
what you did every hour, you've hired
the wrong people and you're going to go
and start this process again with
someone you hired elsewhere. Hope this
was valuable and I'll see you in the
next